Add tutorial about running Pods with sidecar containers (#46825)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tutorials/configuration/pod-sidecar-containers.md

Reviewer: Overall feedback:
- Explain the meaning of sidecar containers; encourage people to read the concept guide first, but don't assume that they actually did.
  - Avoid assuming that readers know what Pods are. For example, they want to run 17 replicas of a container on a cluster with 10 nodes, where it so happens one of those nodes doesn't have any replica running. They might calculate 10 - 1 = 9 and think that they'd need 9 Pods. A very brief outline of what Pods are would really help, plus a link to the concept page.
- We should teach that you can run two app containers side by side but that using a sidecar that Kubernetes recognizes brings its own benefits
- We ought to explain init containers (that run to completion) first, then show how to keep an init container running throughout the lifetime of an app container. And we should explain a little about why we're teaching it this way.
- If using `{{< version-check >}}`, set `min-kubernetes-server-version` in front matter
- “sidecar containers” not “Sidecar Containers”
- don't number headings

Author: I updated text. Would you say it is enough depth or I should go deeper in explaining concepts in this tutorial?

Reviewer: See https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/46825#pullrequestreview-2134319796

---
title: Adopting Sidecar Containers
content_type: tutorial
weight: 40
---

<!-- overview -->

This section is relevant for people adopting [sidecar containers](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/) for their workloads.

> {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.29" state="beta" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< feature-state feature_gate_name=`SidecarContainers >}}
```

## {{% heading "objectives" %}}

* Be able to troubleshoot issues with the Sidecar Containers
* Understand options to universally "inject" Sidecar Containers to any workload

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

> * This tutorial is relevant for clusters version 1.29+

Reviewer: The `version-check` shortcode can cover this for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Adopting Sidecar Containers
content_type: tutorial
weight: 40
min-kubernetes-server-version: 1.29
---

<!-- overview -->

This section is relevant for people adopting [sidecar containers](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/) for their workloads.

> {{< feature-state feature_gate_name=`SidecarContainers >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="SidecarContainers" >}}
```
should fix it.

## {{% heading "objectives" %}}

* Understand the need for sidecar containers
* Be able to troubleshoot issues with the sidecar containers
* Understand options to universally "inject" sidecar containers to any workload

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

* This tutorial is relevant for clusters version 1.29+

<!-- lessoncontent -->

## Sidecar containers overview

Sidecar containers are the secondary containers that run along with the main
application container within the same {{< glossary_tooltip text="Pod" term_id="pod" >}}.

> These containers are used to enhance or to extend the functionality of the primary _app
> container_ by providing additional services, or functionality such as logging, monitoring,
> security, or data synchronization, without directly altering the primary application code.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for opening this PR. This suggestion achieves the following:
- It removes the redundant "to" between the two verbs "enhance" and "extend".
- It breaks the sentence into two parts to improve clarity. Shorter sentences are easier to read and understand.
- it changes the singular noun "functionality" to a plural "functionalities". Using a plural denotes that each additional service is distinct, but they contribute to the app's overall functionality.

```suggestion
These containers are used to enhance or extend the functionality of the primary _app
container_. They provide additional services, or functionalities such as logging, monitoring,
security, or data synchronization, without directly altering the primary application code.
```

You can read more at [Sidecar containers concept page](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/).

The concept of sidecar containers is not new and there are multiple implementation of this concept.
The feature is being used by end users as well as by the sidecar authors who provide ways to "inject"
sidecar containers to any Pod. Those "injectors" are typically implemented as [mutating webhook](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#mutatingadmissionwebhook).

While the concept of sidecar containers is not new,
the native implementation of this feature in Kubernetes, however, is new. And as with every new feature,
adopting this feature may present certain challenges.

This article explore challenges and solution can be experienced by end users as well as
by authors of sidecar containers.

## Benefits of a built-in sidecar containers

There are many benefits for the built-in sidecar containers.

1. Built-in sidecar containers can run before Init containers.

> 2. It is guaranteed that built-in sidecar containers finish AFTER all the regular containers completion.

Reviewer 2: The statement is correct, but it can easily be misinterpreted. At first read, I assumed you meant that the sidecar container would finish successfully with a zero exit code. However, when I tried it by making it run continuously, it finished with a non-zero exit code.

To try this, define a manifest, set the regular container to sleep for say, `10s`, and set the pod’s restart policy to `NEVER`. Lastly, set the restart policy of the init-container to `ALWAYS` and make sure it keeps running by using a while loop that starts it after the sleep of `1s` elapses.
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  initContainers:
  - name: sidecar
    image: alpine
    command: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "while true; do echo 'Sidecar is running'; sleep 1; done"] 
    restartPolicy: Always
  containers:
  - name: main
    image: alpine
    command: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "echo 'Main container is running'; sleep 10"]
  restartPolicy: Never
```

You will notice that the main container completes successfully and terminates. However, the sidecar container keeps running until it is forcefully terminated via the `SIGKILL` signal, hence, causing the pod to be at a pod phase of `Succeeded` or a status of `Completed` when you do a `kubectl get pod`.

```suggestion
2. It is guaranteed that built-in sidecar containers are terminated once all the regular containers are completed and terminated.
```

Reviewer: Sidecars do get a shutdown signal AIUI, but `["/bin/sh", "-c", "while true; do echo 'Sidecar is running'; sleep 1; done"]` might not have a signal handler that will pass the shutdown signal to `sleep` in a useful way.

ICBW here.

Reviewer 2: I agree. If you use an nginx image for the sidecar and main container, but add a short sleep command only for the main container, both containers shut down successfully with an exit code of 0. 

**pod.yaml**
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  initContainers:
  - name: sidecar
    image: nginx:alpine
    restartPolicy: Always
  containers:
  - name: main
    image: alpine
    command: ["/bin/sh", "-c", "echo 'Main container is running'; sleep 10"]
  restartPolicy: Never
```

```yaml
kubectl apply -f pod.yaml

NAME     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
my-pod   2/2     Running   0          11s
```

After about 14 seconds
```yaml
kubectl get pod
NAME     READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
my-pod   0/2     Completed   0          15s
```

```yaml
kubectl logs my-pod sidecar 

2024/07/01 18:06:15 [notice] 1#1: start worker processes
2024/07/01 18:06:15 [notice] 1#1: start worker process 29
2024/07/01 18:06:26 [notice] 1#1: signal 3 (SIGQUIT) received, shutting down
2024/07/01 18:06:26 [notice] 29#29: gracefully shutting down
2024/07/01 18:06:26 [notice] 29#29: exiting
2024/07/01 18:06:26 [notice] 29#29: exit
2024/07/01 18:06:26 [notice] 1#1: signal 17 (SIGCHLD) received from 29
2024/07/01 18:06:26 [notice] 1#1: worker process 29 exited with code 0
2024/07/01 18:06:26 [notice] 1#1: exit
```

```yaml
kubectl describe pod my-pod

main:
    Container ID:  containerd://d67d484d263b88f954b110898b9d0a81b6ff8657143d7a3043f07c4a5a518d3b
    Image:         alpine
....
    Command:
      /bin/sh
      -c
      echo 'Main container is running'; sleep 10
    State:          Terminated
      Reason:       Completed
      Exit Code:    0
```

You can see that they both handle the shutdown signal gracefully.

I am only saying that the statement in the commit saying that it's guaranteed that built-in sidecar containers finish AFTER all the regular containers completion may not be always true.

Author: rephrased

3. With Jobs, when Pod's `restartPolicy=OnFailure` or `restartPolicy=Never`,
   built-in sidecar containers will not block Pod completion.
4. Also, with Jobs, build-in sidecar containers will keep being restarted, even if regular containers would not with Pod's `restartPolicy=Never`.

> These benefits are drastic, and lead to faster adoption that we see with other Kubernetes features.

Reviewer 3: Trying to help with this article, I tried going through the 3 pages we have

[Locally]
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/configuration/pod-sidecar-containers/

[Active]
https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/08/25/native-sidecar-containers/
https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/

Definitely a bit confusing, I'm also trying to contribute, As of now there is `tutorial` in this article, to begin with I'll be adding an example of how one can enable sidecars for something like maybe echoserver.

Additionally I'm a bit confused, do I just clone this repo with the `sidecarsTrobleshooting` branch and then push a commit to that? or do I fork the repo and create a branch and then merge it with SergeyKanzhelev:sidecarsTrobleshooting?

> These benefits are drastic, and lead to faster adoption that we see with other Kubernetes features.

Author: removed the statement

> ## Adopting sidecar containers

Author: I changed the title. Perhaps the old way can be added as a next PR

The `SidecarContainers` feature is in beta state starting Kubernetes version `1.29` and is enabled by default.
Some clusters may have this feature disabled or have software installed that is incompatible with the feature.

When this happens, the Pod may be rejected or the sidecar containers may block Pod startup, rendering the Pod useless.
This condition is easy to detect as Pod simply get stuck on initialization. However, it is rarely clear what caused the problem.

Here are the considerations and troubleshooting steps that one can take while adopting sidecar containers for their workload.

> **Ensure the feature gate is enabled.**

Author: only two items in this list. Fixed

As a very first step, make sure that both - API server and Nodes were upgraded to the version `1.29+`.

> The feature will break on clusters where Nodes are running earlier versions where it is not enabled.

Author: added an alert

> The feature gate enablement should also be validated for both - API server AND Nodes.

Reviewer: (we can use Markdown for emphasis, eg bold text)

One of the ways to check the feature gate enablement is running a command like this:

- For API Server 
  `kubectl get --raw /metrics | grep kubernetes_feature_enabled | grep SidecarContainers`
- For the individual node: 
  `kubectl get --raw /api/v1/nodes/<node-name>/proxy/metrics | grep kubernetes_feature_enabled | grep SidecarContainers`

If you see something like: `kubernetes_feature_enabled{name="SidecarContainers",stage="BETA"} 1`,
it means that the feature is enabled.

**Check for 3rd party tooling and mutating webhooks**

If you experience issues when validating the feature, it may be an indication that one of the
3rd party tools or mutating webhooks are broken.

The `SidecarContainers` feature adds a new field that is define in Kubernetes `1.28` API.
Some tools or mutating webhooks might have been built with an earlier version of Kubernetes API.

> If tools pass the unknown fields as-is or mutating webhooks are using the recommended `Patch` method to mutate Pods, it will not be a problem.

Reviewer: Maybe you meant:
```markdown
-If tools pass the unknown fields as-is or mutating webhooks are using the recommended `Patch` method to mutate Pods, it will not be a problem.
+If tools pass the unknown fields as-is or mutating webhooks are using the recommended `PATCH` method
+to mutate Pods, it will not be a problem.
```
HTTP verbs are typically all-uppercase. However, **mutating webhooks don't use PATCH** because they are an HTTP callout (and response) that modifies the request body during admission.

Author: I rephrased

> However there are tools that will strip out unknown fields and must be recompiled with the v1.28+ version of Kubernetes API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However there are tools that will strip out unknown fields; if you have those, they must be recompiled with the v1.28+ version of Kubernetes API client code.
```

> The way to check this is to use the `kubectl describe pod` command with your Pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way to check this is to use the `kubectl describe pod` command with your Pod that has passed through
mutating admission.
```

If any tools stripped out the new field (`restartPolicy:Always`), you will not find see it in the command output.

> If you hit an issue like this, please advise the author of the tools or the webhooks to switch to `Patch` method of modifying objects.

Reviewer: I don't understand this advice. Webhooks do not use HTTP `PATCH`. Do you mean `"patchType": "JSONPatch"`?

The thing is, [`patchType`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/apiserver-admission.v1/#admission-k8s-io-v1-PatchType) can only ever be JSON Patch; no other type is supported.

If we are writing advice for authors of API clients that do issue HTTP `PATCH` requests, are we sure that Server Side Apply or JSON Merge Patch would be unsuitable?

Please clarify the point you want to make in a review comment, and also reword accordingly?

Reviewer: We can provide additional advice that is specific to people coding in Go; however, the initial / baseline advice should be agnostic about the implementation language for the webhook. We don't enforce or recommend an implementation language for admission-phase extensions.

Author: this is very tricky to give a proper recommendation. We see that `jsonpatch.CreatePatch` sometimes decides to generate a patch that instead of injecting a full new container, will re-inject what was the sidecar container (without the restartPolicy) and then change some fields on what was the sidecar container instead.

Container:
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: asm-sidecar-test
  namespace: default
spec:
  initContainers:
  - name: busybox-native-sidecar
    image: busybox
    restartPolicy: Always
    command:
      - "/bin/sh"
      - "-c"
      - |
        sleep infinite
  containers:
  - name: busybox
    image: busybox
    command:
      - "/bin/sh"
      - "-c"
      - |
        sleep infinite
```

Patch:

```
  {
    "op": "add",
    "path": "/spec/initContainers/1",
    "value": {
      "name": "busybox-native-sidecar",
      "image": "busybox",
      "command": [
        "/bin/sh",
        "-c",
        "sleep infinite\n"
      ],
      "resources": {}
    }
  },
  {
    "op": "replace",
    "path": "/spec/initContainers/0/name",
    "value": "istio-validation"
  },
  {
    "op": "replace",
    "path": "/spec/initContainers/0/image",
    "value": "gcr.io/istio-testing/proxyv2:latest"
  },
```

So the recommendation is basically manually craft the fields mutation

Author: I made the very generic statement in the doc, I am going out of my depth here. Left a comment in PR description that this is a great follow up to have. Perhaps even a separate document as it come up often in KEP's PRRs - how to handle new fields being removed.

{{< alert  title="Note" color="info" >}}

Mutating webhook may update Pods based on some conditions. So sidecar containers may work for some Pods and fail for others.

{{< /alert >}}

> **Automatic injection of sidecars**

Author: changed to headers

If you are using software that injects sidecars automatically,
there are a few possible strategies you may follow to
ensure that native sidecar container can be used.
All of the strategies are generally options you may choose to decide whether
the Pod the sidecar will be injected to will land on a Node supporting the feature or not.

> As an example, you can follow this conversation: https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/48794

Author: fixed

   - query node version and assume the feature gate is enabled on the version 1.29+
   - query node prometheus metrics and check feature enablement status
   - assume the nodes are running in a [supported version skew](https://kubernetes.io/releases/version-skew-policy/#supported-version-skew).
     If API version is 1.32+, assume all the nodes support the feature.
   - there may be other custom ways to detect nodes compatibility.
3. Develop a universal sidecar injector. The idea of a universal sidecar container is to inject a sidecar container
   as a regular container as well as a native sidecar container. And have a runtime logic to decide which one will work.
   The universal sidecar injector is wasteful as it will account for requests twice, but may be considered as a workable solution for special cases.
   - One way would be on start of a native sidecar container
     detect the node version and exit immediately if the version does not support the sidecar feature.
   - Consider runtime feature detection design:
     - Define an empty dir so containers can communicate with each other

>      - Inject init container `NativeSidecar` with `restartPolicy=Always`. 

Author: fixed

     - `NativeSidecar` must write a file to an empty dir indicating the first run and exists immediately with exit code `0`.
     - `NativeSidecar` on restart (when native sidecars are supported) checks that file already exists in the empty dir and changes it - indicating that the built-in sidecar containers are supported and running.
     - Inject regular container `OldWaySidecar`.
     - `OldWaySidecar` on start checks the presence of a file in an empty dir.
     - If the file indicates that the `NativeSidecar` is NOT running - it assumes that the sidecar feature is not supported and works assuming it is the sidecar.
     - If the file indicates that the `NativeSidecar` is running - it either does nothing and sleeps forever (in case when Pod’s `restartPolicy=Always`) or exists immediately with exit code `0` (in case when Pod’s `restartPolicy!=Always`).

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

> * Learn more about [SidecarContainers](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Learn more about [sidecar containers](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/).
```

---
title: Adopting Sidecar Containers
content_type: tutorial
weight: 40
min-kubernetes-server-version: 1.29
---

<!-- overview -->

This section is relevant for people adopting [sidecar containers](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/) for their workloads.

> 

Reviewer: We should (I think need to) explain that you can use sidecars with older clusters. Otherwise, we risk seriously misleading readers.

Author: added a paragraph

You can read more in the [Sidecar containers](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/sidecar-containers/)
concept page.

The concept of sidecar containers is not new and there are multiple implementation of this concept.
As well as sidecar containers that you, the person defining the Pod, want to run, you can also find
that some {{< glossary_tooltip text="addons" term_id="addons" >}} modify Pods -  before the Pods
start running - so that there are extra sidecar containers. The mechanisms to _inject_ those extra
sidecars are often [mutating webhooks](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/
#mutatingadmissionwebhook).
For example, a service mesh addon might inject a sidecar that configures mutual TLS and encryption
in transit between different Pods.

While the concept of sidecar containers is not new,
the native implementation of this feature in Kubernetes, however, is new. And as with every new feature,
adopting this feature may present certain challenges.

This tutorial explore challenges and solution can be experienced by end users as well as
by authors of sidecar containers.

## Benefits of a built-in sidecar containers

> There are many benefits for the built-in sidecar containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Kubernetes' native support for sidecar containers provides several benefits:
```

> 1. Built-in sidecar containers can run before Init containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You can configure a native  sidecar container to start ahead of {{< glossary_tooltip text="init containers" term_id="init-container" >}}.
```

2. The built-in sidecar containers can be authored to guarantee that they are terminated last.
   Sidecar containers are terminated with a `SIGTERM` signal once all the regular containers 
   are completed and terminated. If the sidecar container isn’t gracefully shut down, a 
   `SIGKILL` signal will be used to terminate it.
3. With Jobs, when Pod's `restartPolicy: OnFailure` or `restartPolicy: Never`,

>    built-in sidecar containers will not block Pod completion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   native sidecar containers do not block Pod completion. With legacy sidecar containers,
   special care is needed to handle this situation.
```
